Homework 10
===========

**Due Date: Tuesday, April 14 by 11:00am CDT**

Hands-on Lab: MLOps with a Linear Classifier 
---------------------------------------------

Expanding on the homework assignment you did last week, you will now take the linear classifier you 
built and put it into production.
As a reminder, your homework last week was to develop a linear classifier for the
`UCI Breast Cancer Wisconsin Dataset <https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/17/breast+cancer+wisconsin+diagnostic>`_. 
The dataset contains many features of cell nuclei from breast cancer biopsies.

Perform the following steps inside a Python script (not in a Jupyter Notebook).
Save the code and the model(s) generated into your homework repository for this assignment.


Part 1: Fit Two Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As before, write the appropriate code to import the data, split the data into training and test
datasets, and fit a linear classifier. After validating the accuracy of the model, save the model
to file using the ``pickle`` module.

Next, write the appropriate code to import the data, and create a pipeline which performs data
normalization using the ``StandardScaler``, then classification with a linear classifier. Fit
the pipeline to your training data, and finally save that pipeline to a new file using
the ``pickle`` module.

The code above should all be in the same Python script, but the model and pipeline should be written
to two different, appropriately named files. The Python script should be organized into functions,
and should be written follow Python best practices.

In the README.md, include a section that describes the process you went through to prepare data for
and fit each of the the two models, and note the performance of each model on the test data.



Part 2: Deploy Two Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In a new Python script, use the ``pickle`` module to load the model and the pipeline you created in
Part 1. Then, write code to take sample data from a user as, e.g., a csv file. The test data should
be in the same format as the original data available 
`here <https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/17/breast+cancer+wisconsin+diagnostic>`_, but it may be
as few as one sample.

The objective is to be able to run just this new Python script, have it take sample data from the 
user, then load in the model and pipeline, and make two predictions on the sample data - one using
the original model, and one using the pipeline which normalizes the data before classifying. For
example, usage may look like:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python inference.py --sample_data sample_data.csv
    Your sample data contains 1 entry:
    non-normalized model predicts: [malignant]
    normalized model in pipeline predicts: [benign]

(The above is a rough example, your output may look very different)



What to Turn In
---------------

1. Create a ``homework10/`` directory in your homework repository 
2. Include the script used to fit / validate the model / pipeline (e.g. ``training.py``)
3. Include the script used to load the model / pipeline and make predictions on sample data (e.g. ``inference.py``)
4. Include the pickled model and pipeline files generated in Part 1 and named appropriately 
5. Include a small sample data file in csv format that can be used to test the inference script
6. Include a ``requirements.txt`` file that lists the dependencies for your project
7. Add a ``README.md`` in ``homework09/`` that:

   * Generally describes the purpose of the homework project
   * Describes the data preparation, model fitting, and performance of each model (as described in Part 1)
   * Instructions to the user on how to run the inference script (as described in Part 2)
   * Includes a section on AI usage (if applicable — see note below)


**Expected directory layout:**

.. code-block:: text

   my-mbs337-repo/
   └── homework10/
       ├── README.md
       ├── inference.py
       ├── classifier.pkl
       ├── requirements.txt
       ├── sample_data.csv
       ├── normalizer_and_data_classifier_pipeline.pkl
       └── training.py




Note on Using AI
----------------

The use of AI to complete this assignment is not recommended, but it is permitted
with the following restrictions:

The use of LLMs (like ChatGPT, Copilot, etc) or any other AI must be rigorously
cited. Any code blocks or text that are generated by an AI model should be
clearly marked as such with in-code comments describing what was generated, how
it was generated, and why you chose to use AI in that instance. The homework
README must also contain a section that summarizes where AI was used in the assignment.

Additional Resources
--------------------

* `Unit 10: Machine Learning Operations <../unit10/overview.html>`_
* `SciKit-Learn Linear Classifier <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.SGDClassifier.html#>`_
* `SciKit-Learn breast cancer dataset <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.load_breast_cancer.html>`_
* `Original breast cancer data source <https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/17/breast+cancer+wisconsin+diagnostic>`_
* `SciKit-Learn: Scalers <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/preprocessing.html>`_
* `SciKit-Learn: Pipelines <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.pipeline.Pipeline.html>`_
* Please find us in the class Slack channel if you have any questions!
